what is the meaning of the word
conservative this is partly a direct
answer that question and it's partly a
little bit more of a broad set of
reflections on how this relates to the
current challenges were facing in vegan
politics veganism is a message without a
movement in many ways it's an important
message and we're trying to get
organized to be a powerful movement in
different countries around the world
some countries obviously are ahead of
others if anyone's watching this video
in Tel Aviv they'd say what do you mean
it's a message that's but on the other
hand if you're watching this in Paris
France we just talked to a French vegan
we met at a restaurant here the other
day he was saying yeah that's about
accurate in Paris France the system is
secure that a movement all right the
meanings of terms like left and right
are used in the English language in
politics so need to be left or left wing
politically right waiting politically
they're used as if they have
self-evident constant reliable meanings
but if we just stop and kvetch about it
for a minute we all know that actually
the meanings these terms change from
decade to decade and from place to place
from one culture to another from period
of time to another from one country to
another and sometimes even within the
same country what you mean by calling
someone a liberal in Texas may not be
the same as what's meant by a liberal in
Los Angeles within the United States of
America but I noticed that in the last
couple of years because of the decaying
utility of the word liberal itself the
meaning of the word liberal has really
become diluted and obfuscated it's
become difficult to use the word liberal
with a straight face anymore
more and more the term that's used in
English I think is progressive people
talk about progressive politics now this
is an incredibly biased term the meaning
of the word progressive is we
collectively as a culture have some kind
of list of issues on which we feel the
way forward is clear the direction of
progress is known and not open for
debate and anyone who opposes the
progress of those issues is a regressive
or a conservative whereas those who
support progress in those areas on those
issues in those directions is a
progressive this is a massively
massively biased term there are people
on this earth who identify as
conservative who describe themselves who
will say they are conservative however
nobody identifies as a regress as a
regressive No
people s to identify themselves as an
enemy of progress and in the other hand
we all know it's completely self-serving
to define your own cause simply as one
of progress it just means you're right
that's all it means anyone who disagrees
D was wrong now in the not-too-distant
past around the Year 1989 of course the
whole of the left was was shocked and
challenged was the concept of progress
the concept of the way ahead for
socialism for communism but for the left
in general massively stirred up by the
collapse of the Berlin Wall the fact
that everyone recognized that communism
had been a disaster in Russia in China
also in smaller communist states like
Vietnam Laos Cuba there was this moment
when the whole of the left had to stop
and reconsider wait what is it were
supposed to be pressing the hearts and I
think the use of progressive actually
did drop out of drop out of circulation
for a few decades there but in those
same few decades we had the rise of
first neoconservatism and then the
liberalism the word liberal start to
become meaningless and now here we are
today where it's a really legitimately
contestable question what do any of
these words mean especially if you're in
international politics especially if
like someone like me I deal with
politics in Japan and China
not to mention Sweden England Ireland or
something know what's in a while I'm
interested in politics in North Africa
I'm interested in politics we've been
doing a lot of reading lately and lot of
worrying lately about politics in places
like Yemen to just within this me and my
girlfriend spend a lot of time talking
about Yemen lately anyway it's pretty
much world war four in the greater Saudi
Arabia part of the world these days ah
it is if you have an international focus
then the meaning of any of these term
starts to come dubious indeed textbook
political science would give you the
following answer about the meaning of
the word conservative and it links to
the origin of the terms left and right
as in left-wing and right-wing within
politics the unique origin story for the
word conservative is linked to Edmund
Burke Edmund Burke he wasn't a
conservative ironically but on one
specific issue he was considered
conservative and that was his criticism
of the French Revolution now on that
issue of course he proved to be right
it's difficult to put
yourself back in history put yourself in
the role of a normal reader someone who
just read the newspapers the day they
did have newspapers back now of how
crazy Edmund Burke's warning about the
French Revolution would have sound at
the time
Edmund Burke was a guy who in the early
stages of the French Revolution reigned
the alarm bell saying this is going to
end in kind of mass murder and the
collapse of society I don't think he
ever used the term mass murder but still
if you read it the original source you
can see his point is there that sounded
crazy all kinds of people is it what why
will you this is fear-mongering this is
demonizing the French Revolution come on
the French Revolution made some obvious
some obvious steps in the right
direction in terms of progress the
French Revolution was for example
opposed to slavery these people say
they're gonna abolish slavery they're
gonna replace dictatorship they're gonna
place aristocracy with democratic system
of government sounds good right well
Edmund Burke didn't just ring the alarm
bells it turns out that is his alarm was
right the French Revolution did indeed
go on to to massacres but what's
important to note here in terms the
meaning of the word conservative still
today is why he made that inference why
he made that judgment why he made that
prediction and that does link in a
profound and meaningful sense to to what
conservative still means now and mmin
Burke's analysis was based on what we
would today call folkways folkways or
you could just say customs like the
customs of the common people right he
does not write this in a sort of
schematic or analytical fashion to be
honest this theory really appears like a
series of emotional outbursts throughout
his book his critique of the revolution
of France as I recall that book was
originally a letter that was the Golden
Age of letter writing you know from one
person other than it was a private
letter that was to some extent edited
and made into into book form so it's not
perhaps not even as formally written as
some of his other writing but in any
case if you try to read that book today
you might feel you're you're kind of
reading the disorganized thoughts of a
blogger in 21st century terms but
nevertheless he very sincerely warns
that the reality of how democracy works
not even just democracy he was he was
lukewarm with democracy his fuchal
devote England so this is still
debatable today was that the people of
England were too stupid and too poorly
educated to have democracy if therefore
they needed they need an aristocratic
system they did have a semi democratic
system with the never star be on top to
defend them from themselves to prevent
the people from running amok which is
indeed what happened in the French
Revolution is that was that of course
it's the truth the truth of course was
more complicated than that but
nevertheless look this idea of folk ways
and customs that relationships of
authority social stability most of what
is good in our society doesn't rely on
written law doesn't proceed from a kind
of rational system created by a king or
a dictator or democratic Parliament that
there's this body of kind of uncounted
principles and beliefs in how the
butcher the baker the candlestick maker
all get along the substance of social
harmony itself and to a large extent
also that the day-to-day reality of a I
guess a trust human interactions social
cohesion and indeed authority
relationships Authority this comes down
to folk customs folk ways we'd now say
and the reason why he warned the French
Revolution was so dangerous was that
this was going to tear apart the basis
for social harmony itself and then
society would collapse into a kind of
orgy of violence in turn a scene
fighting and mass murder in one area now
the whole history of the world would be
different if he'd been wrong what if the
French Revolution had settled down into
a kind of stable reliable democracy what
if anything other than the Great Terror
had happened so the later period the
french revolutions referred to as the
great terror
and then significantly in terms of the
this theory of folkways and folk customs
the french revolution did return to a
customary form of monarchy and indeed
monarchical despotism because what
happened next was Napoleon that's a
dictatorship poet right so that's a long
story we're not getting into but it's
interesting this concept of conservatism
and and Edmund Burke is still formally
named in every
political science textbook as the first
conservative as the man who define
conservatism because he's the one guy
who stood up at a time when in England
almost everyone was kind of applauding
at least the potential of the French
Revolution to be a great and wonderful
thing for the the future of the world
he's the one who stood up and said no
this is gonna end in massacres an
attorney who was right
why was he right because of this concept
of social Authority concision pardon me
social Authority cohesion custom etc and
still to this day you can say the
Conservatives are positively the people
who value those folkways now here's the
problem and here's why this is I think
we're talking about in relation to
veganism the meaning of folk custom or
you could say in Republican Party sense
of traditional values right
what are traditional values in Texas and
what are traditional values in Manhattan
what are traditional values in Saudi
Arabia what are traditional values in
Sri Lanka okay so there have been some
videos lately by tofu goddess and she
kind of asked the question why is it
that left wingers are associate with
veganism and conservatives are not well
I think what's really important to draw
attention to here is that some of the
countries where veganism has been most
successful are precisely the countries
where veganism does rate pardon me
where thicken ISM rate would work where
veganism does resonate with conservative
values where it builds on folk customs
or folk ways and more conservatives can
go by nor do tend to get by right so
first and foremost is Taiwan Taiwan is I
think the strongest vegan culture in the
world
conservative Taiwanese culture values
veganism and the questions it raises
partly because it's a culture that's
emerged of a mix of Mahayana Buddhism
Taoism Confucianism various Chinese
cultural values and of course also
anti-communism that whole island exists
only in a struggle for its own survival
against communist China it's another
story but in those unique circumstances
when I was in Taiwan I met really
conservative really macho ex-military
guys
who were vegan you know no no I didn't
meet a hundred of them I couldn't speak
Chinese back then but like I met several
of these guys and it was a you know when
I talk about yeah yeah that's like a
known stereotype you know the guy who
gets out of the army some of them some
of them are vegan well they were in the
army I asked them about that too you
know what I mean sort of mean old mean
old we would say right weighing a mean
old conservative guy one of them was was
Special Forces he was a real killer he
talked to me about it and we learned to
strangle people and all that [ __ ] he was
a hands-on hands-on kind of guy in the
Army the he was he was serious as hell
about about veganism let me tell you
anyway and he um he actually told me
that he was a Buddhist but later friend
he was a member of a Taoist group anyway
so this is this is a culture where
veganism is thriving and now and it's
thriving in part because it has roots in
conservatism they're not in Texas right
I think not in England or Wales or you
know most of Western Europe but there's
something for us to learn here and it's
not a broad generalization about the
nature of conservatism unless we
understand in this way and I think the
classical Edmund Burke sense that
conservatism has to do with being rooted
in folk folk ways valuing those folk
ways more than the potential for
rational reform rational reform
proceeding like lines drawn on a
chalkboard or like you know lines on a
blank piece of paper writing up a new
constitution that was a new idea that
I'm you know hey we're just gonna write
a new constitution to change the whole
country United States did it France did
it and other countries like the
Netherlands start to jump on the
constitutional ban about writing a new
constitution it to some extent it can
change country overnight but to some
extent it can't and you could say that
conservatives are putting up this on the
side of the equation what doesn't so Tom
walls one example we're right now in
Thailand we went to a meeting of vegan
activists here at a local restaurant and
I asked the question seriously
you know does Thailand now have the
potential to catch up with Taiwan this
way Thailand also of a culture built in
this case on Terra battle Buddhism but
you know the Buddhist roots of the
culture in so many ways nothing
left-wing about being vegetarian here in
Thailand I mean the concepts of left
wing and right wing are a bit surreal in
the Thai context but you know in the the
near political future for Thailand I
absolutely feel Thailand has the
potential to catch up with Taiwan and
become a really powerful you know vegan
culture but not because of socialism not
because of communism not even because of
Bernie Sanders or that style of you know
not because of free health care a free
diversity education or any of the ideas
that kind of Bernie Sanders moderate
left I don't I don't even consider
Bernie Sanders of socials I think I'm as
moderate moderate left but anyway
whatever it has nothing to do with that
right and you know the the biggest
question of all in the map is India
India with its more than a billion
people and you know a culture that of
course I mean they they used to have the
monopoly on Buddhism they don't need
more Buddhism is now a small minority
religion there they have Buddhism they
have Hinduism they have Jainism they
have all this discourse surrounding you
know killing animals and eating meat and
drinking milk it's a very complex you
know a murky picture obviously India
their tradition really that the
parameters there is vegetarianism not
veganism but anyone who just does
Wikipedia level reading about that we'll
see there's an enormous potential there
and again it is fundamentally you could
say a conservative tendency so I've used
this example in conversation really so
recent I forget where it was when we
were talking the other vegans or not but
I said I think it was I said look you
know Taiwan is a country where women
will literally reschedule their abortion
after consulting a Buddhist monk to try
to find the day on the calendar when the
ghosts of the aborted fetus is least
likely to haunt them I mean that's
conservative that's folkways that is
folk culture folk religion I mean this
is your grand this is not a religion
written down in any book this is not you
know the Buddha taught blank no this is
centuries of truly you know talk about
traditional values [ __ ] you know I
mean you know Republicans listen to
Britney Spears they think Britney Spears
in you know
a tube top it's traditional values no it
ain't Taiwan has got traditional youth
let me trust you but those are the
people who are you know inclined towards
veganism I think more than anybody of
course the truth is more complicated
than that I could say a whole lot more
about that but you can see this raises
real interesting questions about the
present and future potential veganism
and its relationship to liberalism
conservatives myths that are in a much
more dynamic way the other big question
not going to talk about here and a
Scanlan used to have a video talking
about it was the extent to which
veganism in Israel Israel is another big
success story for veganism
is actually conservative in nature and
it links to conservative judaism and the
dietary regulations and in reaction to
that you know I do think I do think
vegans in Israel are gonna be more more
left-wing than right wing within the
Israeli political spectrum but you say I
think there are actually really
important questions asked there I think
if you're doing serious social science
research on veganism in Israel one of
these to focus on is the extent to which
it's not an exclusively left-wing or
socialist thing and that's probably why
some studies are saying there above 5%
vegans maybe only get to being above 5%
when you're not just a bunch of
left-wing hippies you're not just a
bunch of socialists but you appeal to at
least people in the center moderates and
maybe you'll start appealing to
conservatives as well but again the
meaning of conservatism is ultimately
rooted in culture folk culture tradition
of Ives folk ways and bizarrely Edmund
Burke's critique of the French
Revolution okay
one end this video with a thought
experiment a lot of people make videos
here on YouTube with the premise with
the implicit assumption that vegan
outreach and public education really
matters that it's maybe the most
important thing what do I mean by this
vei mean somebody with a pamphlet
walking up to you on the street handing
you a pamphlet and saying go vegan okay
this is what we mean by vegan average
some people think that's the core of the
movement so we got to be devoting our
money to and our time to that's the most
effective form of of activism okay if we
really believe this if we take this
premise seriously if vegan outreach does
matter and does work and we look at the
current situation analytically we would
have to conclude that vegan outreach as
we're doing it only works for left-wing
people totally in context like the
United States of America so we're not
talking about Taiwan
not talking about individually we would
have to come to the conclusion that
we're somehow producing pamphlets that
only people further to the left of
Bernie Sanders responsive right if we
really believe in this method of
teaching and preaching veganism no I
don't I'm an ultra skeptic about what's
going on right now under the name of a
vegan average I don't believe this I
think that way madness lies we have
groups like direct action everywhere who
say their methods are based on social
science research and all this fabulous
research they've done learning the
lessons of history they've learned so
much from studying the history of
Mohandas Gandhi in India and of the Arab
Spring after 2011 they say they've
learned so much and what's the best idea
direct action everywhere comes up with
walk into a restaurant and demand to buy
dog meat and then when they don't have
dog meat throw a fit and say the dog
meat is the same as calcium this is the
fresh the fresh new idea they can come
up with and apparently this only this
only appeals to left-wing extremist and
then they come on the internet and show
you the video on YouTube of them doing
this in a restaurant I'm causing a scene
in a restaurant demanding dog meat and
they encourage you to you and all your
friends should throw it and demand dog
meat from the restaurant this is this is
quote unquote disruption this is gonna
change the world this is gonna save the
animals gonna save the planet no it's
not but if we believe that if you if
this is your conviction if you're
someone who really believes in in vegan
outreach and these methods of activism
and disruption if you do or if you want
to analyze the current situation with
that premise treating it as valid until
it's proven invalid that's an important
thing to do as the thought experiment
then you must come to the inclusion in
the United States of America in Canada
in Western Europe we're using methods of
outreach that don't work because they
only work for the left-wing lunatic
fringe now I think I've presented this
kind of 180 degrees opposite of what the
real situation is the real situation is
you're using methods like this like
disruption from direct action everywhere
that in fact are only appealing to
people who already deeply committed to
not just not just then up just Bernie
Sanders people but people who are
communists or left-wing soldiers people
are far far out and left-wing they see
those methods of street protest
disruption those hubs and they think oh
I can really this is the same thing I
used to do when I was protesting in
support of the Soviet Union or whatever
was it relates to them on that aesthetic
and political level as part of the same
tradition of of left-wing street
activism there are various reasons why
okay now if we flip this around and ask
what if outreach doesn't matter what if
this is basically something impotent and
something frankly even ritualistic that
we're doing as vegans then I think we
start to take the steps towards the
truth which is that we're not living in
a society where the body of vegans is
constituted by people who at random
happen to be handed a pamphlet on a
university campus and it changed their
whole lives we have clusters of people
who become vegan because veganism
presents them with answers to questions
that they were asking themselves anyway
in Taiwan I saw people who became vegan
because they were asking questions that
Buddhism couldn't answer they were
frustrated with Buddhism that were
dissatisfied with pudding they said
Buddhism is corrupt Buddhism is failing
to answer these questions about ecology
but doesn't failing to that question but
war war in the anti-war movement people
become vegan because the anti-war
movement I mean it's not that
paradoxical they already had these
questions whether they were left-wing or
right-wing and many of them as sit were
conservative they already had questions
and then they saw in veganism and answer
and you're looking at a really peculiar
and cultural subgrouping some people as
you know the questions were about having
a heart attack
you know what have you but I mean
probably I mean the big ones are of
ethics ecology etc then I get to get
people to really commit to this
lifestyle so we're looking at a funny
cross-section of people who whether or
not they were ever given a pamphlet
we're already asking these questions and
then found in veganism the answer that's
that's going to be your first 2% of the
population who become vegan and now
we're looking at the next 2% if we if we
get there if we can reach them which is
people who are not asking those
questions who are not into those
questions yet can we lead them to ask
this question us have been through this
with our own parents right so I cared
about these questions so I became vegan
I sit down with my own mom I'd say mom
do you ever ask yourself blank defective
is it possible for me to get you to
question your subjective life
and my implicit point in this whole
video is if we even want to be as
successful as Taiwan already is if we
want to be a successful thing as Israel
is and as places like Thailand and India
have the potential to be we have to be
framing those questions we have to be
raising those doubts in a way that
actually does resonate with
conservatives that does resonate with
moderate people with people at the
center of the political spectrum and
walking into a restaurant and throwing a
fit because they don't have dog meat
that ain't it okay guys there's a
playlist I'll give the link to below
this video which is called brass tacks
and there I'm gathering my recent videos
talking about practical questions of
practical Ansel's about how we move
forward with a vegan movement and I mean
those are questions of nations some
extend this channel all along but from
my perspective I'm just giving up I've
been talking about this stuff YouTube
for three years but I'm finally going
back to Canada I'm finally going back to
a country where I have the right to vote
and to organize politically so maybe we
can finally start to make a difference